At the moment in this genus 3 topology we can log in to write a one with the user named David and password
Cisco the ISIS server however only has a username of admin so once we integrate our one with the ACM
server David will no longer be able to log in.
So let's configure or one to talk to the authentication server at the moment.
Please note that on the console when we use the command log in we have the option log in enter or carriage
return which means that the password on the line is used for authentication or we can specify that a
local username and password database is used for authentication.
One of the first commands we going to use with Triple A is triple A new model.
This will enable new access control commands and functions and disable old commands.
So we've entered Triple A new model.
Now when we go onto the console and type log in notice the options have changed.
Previously we had log in local or log in enter but if we type logging into that doesn't work or log
in local that also doesn't work.
So the authentication commands have changed and now we have the options a log in authentication and
we can specify a word or the default option.
I'm not going to enter that now by default the authentication used is default and I'll show you where
that's configured in a moment.
So all we've done thus far is specify Triple A new model.
We need a local user name and password as backup.
But that was configured previously so we've got two usernames and passwords here.
David and Mary.
So what we'll do now is specify.
You could use radius but in this example I'm going to specify attack X host of 10 dot wandered wandered
1 that is this AC s server AC a server has an IP address of 10 dot 1 that one dot 1 so as an example
ping 10 dot wandered wandered 1 The Roddick and paying the ACA server we need to specify a password
that's going to be used for encryption so we use the command techniques server key and then specify
a password for the encryption or key for the encryption.
I'll use Cisco here and now we need to specify Triple A options we have authentication authorization
and accounting.
I'm going to specify authentication.
What are we going to authenticate.
In our example we're going to authenticate a log in attempts to the Rada so Triple A authentication
log in.
You could also use triple A for PDP sessions.
In other words chap or pap or when someone uses the enable command to go to enable mode but she will
simply do it for logging.
We can use a word or default and that's where that default option comes in.
Default means that this authentication method is going to be applied to all lines on the router.
That means the console the Exelon report Viti wine lines and Titi wine lines.
We didn't apply authentication on the auxiliary port in this router but by using Triple A it's a lot
easier to apply an authentication on every line on the device and not miss some of the lines.
So it's a lot better than doing things locally.
We can then specify what's going to be used for authentication.
In our example we want to specify a group which is going to be tax because we're using a tax protocol
and then as a backup authentication method we can use local what that means is that if the router is
unable to connect to the tax server because the network is down or the server is down a local username
and password database will be used as an alternate method for authenticating the user.
Now please note authentication failures to the TAC server.
It doesn't mean that the local database will be used.
The local database is only used if the tax server is unavailable so that was the configuration show
run will allow us to see that.
So we specified Triple A new model we specified our authentication default method is going gonna be
using tack X and then a local database.
These were configured previously but you would need to configure a local username and password as a
backup.
He has our tech X server information and notice on the lines we no longer see a log in local the console
is using the default which is to use tactics and if that fails to use a local database so when we try
and log back into the router with the user name of David and positive Cisco it works at the moment because
the router isn't connected to the TAC server.
We still have to configure the TAC server to allow the router to communicate with the TAC server at
the moment.
We have some other devices here but the genius 3 Rodda isn't configured.